- [Instructor] Externalized configuration
in a microservices architecture isn't a hard
and fast requirement like it is for cloud native
but its value becomes operationally important when load
and movement of services occurs.
The value proposition for externalized configuration
and micro services is more
about operations than distribution.
When you have systems running and issues occur,
having a clear spot to see configuration outside
of code can greatly impact the meantime to resolution.
Externalization of your configuration varies based
on your runtime as well as the frameworks being used.
Runtimes like Kubernetes and frameworks like Spring,
have sophisticated models to inject configuration
into your application but many other tools do as well.
The key here is to use tooling
that makes external environmental variables easy to find,
as well as manipulate.
Well, it may not seem like a huge deal,
consistent naming could also be very helpful.
Again, always look at operational patterns
from the perspective of the on-call engineer being woken up
in the middle of the night.
If you consistently call a variable X,
except in one case, when you get a page on that one case,
you may find that your resolution time suffers.
When defining which values
for configuration should be externalized,
my recommendation is to always err on the side
of externalization.
It doesn't hurt to expose too much config
but if you don't expose enough, resolution
and troubleshooting may suffer.
On that line however, there is a need to protect secrets.
Secrets can and should be externalized
in most implementations through special constructs
but ensure the on-call team has a path to get them securely
while not exposing them to prying eyes.
Externalized config is not a hard concept
but I do want to talk about the pattern and how it applies.
First and foremost, config is usually injected
into your service or retrieved
as part of the startup routine for your framework.
These values then become available
to your code through various mechanisms
and each language has very specific ways
of accessing these values.
Your service should then be written
to utilize these values in favor of the embedded values.
I say embedded because I do believe in the use
of defaults where they make sense.
Once again, there's a lot of common libraries, toolings
and patterns within each language
that will help you consume, use
and flex behavior based on various values.
Once again, use what already exists.
The basic pattern however, is always the same.
Read the config, flex your behavior as necessary and act,
it's simple enough.